hi this is George from high-tech Legion
today we're going to take a look at the
noctua NHC 14 cpu cooler the NHC 14 is a
very interesting piece which the
packaging really only kind of handset
taking a look at the front of the box we
can see there's a picture of the NHC 14
but it's only a partial we concede it's
dual fan but not much else do you see
that it's a c-type flow design which
basically means that the cooler is
shaped in a sea formation with the air
blowing through this way it is a dual
fan which obviously we can see from the
picture he uses the secure to firm to
mounting system now it also has a low
profile mode and a high clearance mode
basically if you lose one of the themes
either the bottom fam you're going to
get much more clearance underneath the
unit where moves the top fan you're
going to wind up with a low profile
cooler typically you don't think of a
dual fan and low profile going
hand-in-hand moving over to the top of
the box detailed specifications the
dimensions on the cooler are listed is
166 high by 140 wide by 1 30 deep that's
a little misleading because the actual
height is listed as the depth here and
it's a hundred and thirty millimeters
with the fan attached without the fan it
stands only a hundred and five
millimeters so it'll fit into just about
any case also you've got the details on
the NFP 14 fans that are included they
have a maximum rotational speed of 1200
RPM with the low noise and ultra-low
noise adapters included they'll spin
down to 750 and 900 respectively got
further listing of the features over on
the side panel with a little bit more
detail explain an explanation of the
c-type flow design a little more on the
NFP 14 fans little more on the secure
firm to mounting system explanation of
high clearance and low profile and also
just a little note that does come with n
th one thermal calm
which is one of the finest thermal
compounds on the market the rear of the
Box explanation in six more languages
and moving over a little bit more detail
on the pictures as well as line drawings
showing all three modes available okay
rox punta noctua is packed in all
environmentally friendly packaging on
top accessory box and d hardware set
common parts which include the low noise
and also low noise adapters as well as
the y adapter for the fans and see i'll
pull two noctua n th one thermal paste
intel set imagining on the intel system
screwdriver is included and finally the
manual i'm going to holder separate
manuals for intel and AMD under the
accessory box find a larger box
containing NHC 14 itself once again all
cardboard no styrofoam no rubber all
biodegradable
one of the strange things here you see
is the fact that it comes with the fans
pre-installed very unusual in today's
market it's also one of the only coolers
where the fans are the first thing
installed that they're not installed
already reason for that being they don't
block any of the tie downs or secure
points as they would worthy unit mounted
this way it's not going to get in the
way of a ram slot you'll actually be
able to put the screwdriver right
through the fan and hole in the heatsink
to get to the secure points as we said
it's a c-type unit shaped like a sea air
flow is through the unit this way six
heat pipes copper nickel plated cooling
block also copper nickel plated and see
a good amount of fins 140 millimeters
worth and the two and FP for teens
pre-installed using the multiple
mounting configuration of the NHC 14 is
very very simple as you see right now it
sits in its normal dual fan
configuration if you were putting it
into a low profile application such as
an htpc a slim case simply take off the
top and two clips off comes the pen it's
now only one hundred and five
millimeters in height and still offers a
great deal of cooling capacity if you've
got a situation where you're close to
your RAM slots you're using taller RAM
or if your motherboard has some taller
heat sinks right around the CPU the
bottom fan can be removed just as easily
and replaced by simply the top ten we've
now got a great deal of clearance
underneath for any components that may
be in the way on all the NHC 14 is a
very very versatile unit it's a
top-notch cooler capable of low profile
applications and can also give you great
clearance if you need it for your
motherboard let's take a quick look at
the NFP 14 fan this is a hundred and
forty millimeter fan made by knocked
with themselves very simple design just
a ring frame bolt pattern lines up with
any standard 120 millimeter fam clips
are pre-installed on the fan and use a
rubber bushing to cut down on vibration
take a closer look at the teeth that the
fins themselves there's a sawtooth
pattern cut into each Finn noctua says
this cuts down on noise and adds to
airflow and is capable of 110 CFM at
only 19.6 DB that's a lot of air
movement without a lot of noise two of
them in conjunction still remain quieter
than most hundred and twenty millimeter
fans and can move significantly more air